# Advanced Data Structures Lab (ADL).

## List of Assignments

## Group A

### Assignment-1 :
- [ ] A book consists of chapters, chapters consist of sections and sections consist of subsections. Construct a tree and print the nodes.  Find the time and space requirements of your method.

### Assignment-2 :
- [x] Beginning with an empty binary search tree, Construct binary search tree by inserting the values in the order given. After constructing a binary tree -
1. Insert new node
2. Find number of nodes in longest path 
3. Minimum data value found inthe tree 
4. Change a tree so that the roles of the left and right pointers are swapped at every node 
5. Search a value    

### Assignment-3 :
- [x] For given expression eg. a-b*c-d/e+f construct inorder sequence and traverse it using postorder traversal(non recursive).

### Assignment-4 :
- [ ] Read for the formulas in propositional calculus. Write a function that reads such a formula and creates its binary tree representation. What is the complexity of your function?

### Assignment-5 :
- [ ] Given binary tree with n nodes, assign this tree to another [operator=] and then erase all nodes in a binary tree.

### Assignment-6 :
- [x] Convert given binary tree into threaded binary tree.  Analyze time and space complexity of the algorithm. 

### Assignment-7 :
- [ ] Consider threading a binary tree using preorder threads rather than inorder threads. Design an algorithm for traversal without using stack and analyze its complexity. 

### Assignment-8 :
- [x] A  Dictionary  stores  keywords  &  its  meanings.  Provide  facility  for  adding  new  keywords, deleting keywords, updating values of any entry. Provide facility to display whole data sorted in ascending/ Descending order. Also find how many maximum comparisons may require for finding any keyword.  Use height balanced tree and find complexiety.

## Group B

### Assignment-9 :
- [ ] Write a function to get the number of vertices in an undirected graph and its edges. You may assume thatno edge is input twice. 
1. Use adjacency list representation of the graph and find runtime of the function
2. Use adjacency matrix representation of the graph and find runtime of the function

### Assignment-10 :
- [x] There are flight paths between cities. If there is a flight between city A and city B then there is an edge between the cities. The cost of the edge can be the time that flight takesto reach city B from A, or the amount of fuel used for the journey. Represent this as a graph. The node can be represented by airport nameor name of the city. Use adjacency list representation of the graph or use adjacency matrix representation of the graph. Justify thestorage representation used.

### Assignment-11 :
- [x] You have a business with several offices; you want to lease phone lines to connect them up with each other; and the phone company charges different amounts of money to connect different pairs of cities. You want a set of lines that connects all your offices with a minimum total cost. Solve the problem by suggesting appropriate data structures.

### Assignment-12 :
- [ ] Tour operator organizes guided bus trips across the Maharashtra. Tourists may have different preferences.  Tour  operator  offers  a  choice  from  many  different  routes.  Every  day  the  bus moves from starting citySto another cityF as chosen by client. Onthis way, the tourists can see the sights alongside the route travelled from S to F. Client may have preference to choose route. There is a restriction on the routes that the tourists may choose from, the bus has to take a short route fromStoF or a route having one distance unit longer than the minimal distance. Two routes fromStoFare considered different if there is at least one road from a cityAto a cityBwhich is part of one route, but not of the other route.

### Assignment-13 :
- [ ] Consider the scheduling problem. n tasks to be scheduled on single processor. Let t1, ..., tn be durations required to execute on single processor is known. The tasks can be executed in any order but one task at a time. Design a greedy algorithm for this problem and find a schedule that minimizes the total time spent by all the tasks in the system. (The time spent by one is the sum of the waiting time of task and the time spent on its execution.)  

## Group C 

### Assignment-14 :
- [x] Consider telephone book database of N clients. Make use of a hash table implementation to quickly look up client‘s telephone number.

### Assignment-15 :
- [x] Implement all the functions of a dictionary (ADT) using hashing.Data:  Set of (key, value) pairs, Keys are mapped to values, Keys must be comparable, Keys must be uniqueStandard Operations:  Insert(key, value), Find(key), Delete(key)

### Assignment-16 :
- [ ] For given set of elements create skip list. Find the element in the set that is closest to some given value. 

### Assignment-17 :
- [ ] The symbol table is generated by compiler.From this perspective, the symbol table is a set of name-attribute pairs.In a symbol table for a compiler, the name is an identifier, and the attributes might include an initial value and a list of lines that use the identifier.Perform the following operations on symbol table:
1. Determine if a particular name is in the table
2. Retrieve the attributes of that name
3. Modify the attributes of that name
4. Insert a new name and its attributes
5. Delete a name and its attributes

## Group D

### Assignment-18 :
- [ ] Given sequence k = k1 <k2 < ... < kn of n sorted keys, with a search probability pi for each key ki . Build the Binary search tree that has the least search cost given the access probability for each key.

### Assignment-19 :
- [ ] A  Dictionary  stores  keywords  &  its  meanings.  Provide  facility  for  adding  new  keywords, deleting keywords, updating values of any entry. Provide facility to display whole data sorted in ascending/ Descending order. Also find how many maximum comparisons may require for finding any keyword. Use Height balance tree and find the complexity for finding a keyword

## Group E

### Assignment-20 :
- [ ] To create ADT that implements the SETconcept.
1. Add (newElement) -Place a value into the set   
2. Remove (element) Remove the value 
3. Contains (element) Return true if element is in collection 
4. Size () Return number of values in collection Iterator () Return an iterator used to loop over collection
5. Intersection  of two sets,
6. Union of two sets,
7. Difference between two sets,
8. Subset

### Assignment-21 :
- [x] Read the marks obtained by students of second year in an online examination of particular subject.  Find  out maximum  and minimum  marks  obtained in  that subject.   Use heap data structure. Analyze the algorithm.

## Group F

### Assignment-22 :
- [ ] Assume we have two input and two output tapes to perform the sorting. The internal memory can hold and sort m records at a time. Write a program in java for external sorting. Find out time complexity.

### Assignment-23 :
- [x] Department maintains  a student information. The file containsrollnumber, name, division and  address.      Allow  user  to  add,  delete  information  of  student.  Display  information  of particular employee.  If record of student does not exist an appropriate message is displayed. If it is, then the system displays the student details.Use sequential file to main the data.

### Assignment-24 :
- [ ] Company  maintains  employee  information  as  employee  ID,  name,  designation  and  salary. Allow  user  to  add,  delete  information  of  employee.  Display  information  of particular employee.  If employee does not exist an appropriate message is displayed. If it is, then the system displays the employee details.Use index sequential file to maintain the data.

## Group G

### Assignment-25 :
- [ ] Implement the Heap/Shell sort algorithm implemented in Java demonstrating heap/shell data structure with modularity of programming language

### Assignment-26 :
- [ ] Any  application  defining  scope  of  Formal  parameter,  Global  parameter,  Local  parameter accessing mechanism and also relevance to private, public and protected access.  Write a Java program which demonstrates the scope rules of the programming mechanism.

### Assignment-27 :
- [ ] Write a Java program which will demonstrate aconcept of Interfaces and packages: In this assignment design and use of customized interfaces and packages for a specific application are expected.

### Assignment-28 :
- [ ] Write  a  Java  program  which  will  demonstrate  a  concept  of  cohesion  and  coupling  of  the various modules in the program.

### Assignment-29 :
- [ ] Write  a  program  on  template  and  exception  handling  in  Java:  in  this  assignment  multiple templates are to be designed as a pattern and these patterns to be used to take decisions.

### Assignment-30 :
- [ ] Write  a  Java  program  for  the  implementation  of  different  data  structures  using  JAVA collection libraries (Standard toolkit library): at least 5 data structures are used to design a suitable application.

### Assignment-31 :
- [ ] Design a mini project using JAVA which will use the different data structure with or without Java  collection  library  and  show  the  use  of  specific  data  structure  on  the  efficiency (performance) of the code.
